Good morning.
Welcome to Advanced Troubleshooting
for System Administrators.
My name is Nicole Jacque,
and I work with the
AppleCare Enterprise Support Engineering
Group.
And if you haven't noticed,
the title and the
description for this session,
they're pretty broad.
As much as I'd like to,
there's really not a way to cover
troubleshooting the entire OS X and
OS X Server systems in one session.
There's not a magic silver bullet
that I can tell you that you can
go back and fix every problem
that you're ever going to have.
There's not a magical key combination
or hidden checkbox that says,
make things work.
Sorry.
Okay.
Feature request.
So what we're going to do today
is we're going to focus on some
areas of troubleshooting that
My group sees very commonly
from our enterprise customers,
and we're going to talk about the
tools that you can use to troubleshoot
these parts of the operating system
and these issues so that you can
either fix these problems yourself,
or you can talk more effectively
to us so we can fix them.
And even though I said that
there's no magic command,
no silver bullet,
there's one thing that we're
going to be talking about
throughout the entire session,
you're going to see it keep coming up,
and that is DNS.
You need to have DNS running, working,
and you need to have forward and
reverse records for all your servers,
and the relevant service records for
any Active Directory domain controllers
that you might have in your environment.
So the areas that we
are going to talk about,
we're going to talk a little bit
just about logging in general,
just to make sure we're
all on the same page.
Then we're going to move on to
Directory Services Troubleshooting.
So the areas that we
are going to talk about,
we're going to talk a little bit
just about logging in general,
just to make sure we're
all on the same page.
Then we're going to move on to
Directory Services Troubleshooting.
So this is going to be an opportunity
for you to get your questions in,
it just will not be in this room.
So we're going to start just by
talking very briefly about logging.
So you're all, since you're advanced
system administrators,
you all probably know where the logs are.
Var log is where most of your
standard Unix type utilities
and processes put their logs.
That's where your system log is,
that's where your console stuff goes,
that's where the secure log is.
Library logs is where a lot of
OS X specific processes put their logs.
And then if you have some
user specific logging,
that will usually go in the
user's library logs directory
in their home directory.
Now,
every process can handle its own logging.
It can put a log file in any
one of these directories,
and it can log at any level
of verbosity that it wants to.
They may have totally separate
ways for configuring logging
to be turned on and off,
or at different levels of logging.
But one thing that a lot of processes
have in common is that they use the
syslog system to do their logging.
And you can actually configure this.
So the configuration file
is in the /etc/ directory,
syslog.conf,
and it looks something like this.
But let's break that down a little bit.
You'll see a lot of these pairs
of something dot something.
And so the first part of
that is called the facility,
and that's just a fancy name for the
part of the OS that's doing the logging.
The second part of that is the level
of logging that you want to do.
You have a lot of different
levels of logging,
all the way from none up through debug,
and in this progression,
the lower you go down on this chart,
the more logging that you get.
You can string these pairs along,
put them together with semicolons,
And then, at the end of the line,
you specify where you would
like the logging to go.
So, in this default syslog configuration,
you'll see what goes into the system log.
You can feel free to change that,
make more information
go into the system log,
or possibly less.
Or,
you can make your own totally new log,
and log whatever you want to it.
You can also use asterisks for wildcards.
So in this case,
kern.asterisk is going to log every
single level for the Kernel facility.
Even more useful,
you can use the asterisk as
a wildcard for the facility.
So asterisk.debug is going
to log messages at the debug
level for every facility.
This can be really useful if
you have a problem in the OS,
and you're really not
sure where the problem is.
You just want to get as much information
out of the system as you can.
So you can set asterisk.debug logging,
and hopefully whatever process it is
that's having the problem logs to syslog,
and you'll get some information
about it in your system log.
So this is basically just to
get us all on the same page at
various points in the presentation.
I'm going to refer back to this.
I'm going to tell you you're
going to want to configure syslog.
This is what I'm talking about.
And now it's time to move
on to Directory Services.
So like I said,
we're going to talk very widely
about Directory Services,
client, server.
And one thing,
just to give me sort of an idea,
how many people in the
audience use Open Directory?
Okay, quite a few.
How many people use Active Directory?
How many people use something else?
OK.
Just out of even more curiosity,
how many people use more than
one directory system at a time?
Okay, good to know.
So the very first thing that I get
asked when people start trying
to troubleshoot something with
directory services is they'll say,
"You know, I was somewhere,
I was in Work Group Manager or something,
and I got this error message,
and it was something
like negative 14.002.
So what is that?"
Well, you can actually look up
all those error codes.
They're in the MAN page
for Directory Service.
That has a very brief
description of them.
There's a little bit more
information in the open directory
reference on the developer site.
So you can actually,
any time you get these errors,
look that up.
It might give you some more information.
And we'll be talking a little bit
more about some of these errors
throughout the presentation.
So the other basic information
about directory services
that you need to know is,
well, where do all the files live?
So library preferences directory
service is where the majority
of the configuration files
for directory service go.
This is where if you
configure directory access,
all those settings are stored here.
If you are using open directory,
you're using a password server,
and so there's some additional
config files that are kept
in var db auth server.
If you're using Kerberos,
which could mean you're using open
directory or active directory,
or something else,
just some other Kerberos server.
Then you have an edu.mit.kerberos file,
which is your basic
configuration for Kerberos.
And if you're a server,
you may also have a keytab file in Etsy,
krb5.keytab.
That's where your
service principals live.
So these are files that you
can go and look at if you're
curious as to how they're stored.
A few of the files have a few options
in them that aren't exposed to the GUI,
so you can look at and
change things there.
Another reason people want
to know where these are,
though, is just that at some point,
They need to start fresh
with directory services.
And so if you remove these files,
This is what you need to get
back to a clean slate as far as
directory services is concerned.
Once you remove the files,
you either need to reboot the system,
or you can just restart
directory services,
and to do that,
sudo killall directory service.
Launch D actually takes
care of restarting it,
so basically you just need
to kill directory services.
The next thing people want
to do is get some information
out of Directory Service.
By default, it doesn't really log a
whole lot of information.
But you can actually turn on debug
logging with the USR1 flag sent using
the killall command to Directory Service.
This is essentially an on/off switch.
Doing it once turns it on.
Doing it again turns it off.
If you restart, it will be back off.
If you want the debug logging to
start automatically at startup,
you need to create a file
in the Library Preferences
Directory Service folder
called .dslogapi at start.
You can use touch to do it,
or whatever method you like.
And the log file is going to go
to Library Logs Directory Service,
and it's going to be called
directoryservice.debug.log.
So, great, you turn on debugging,
and you're going to get
something that looks like this.
Which is really exciting,
and everybody looks at it and says,
oh yeah, that totally solves my problem.
So we're going to actually break
this down a little bit more for you.
Basically, what Directory Services spends
most of its time doing is it gets
questions and it answers them.
So those are the two main things
you're going to find in the debug log.
So for a query, you'll see a timestamp.
You'll see the client or the process
that called Directory Service,
and you'll see that client's process ID.
You'll see the actual call
that's made to directory service,
the plugin that's being called.
In this case, it's LDAPv3,
but it could be the
Active Directory plugin,
the NetInfo plugin, whatever plugin.
And then you'll see the query itself.
In this case, it's querying for
John Smith with an exact match,
and it has to be a user record.
So, directory service gets the query,
and it answers.
You'll get most of the
same information here,
except that instead of seeing the query,
you'll see whether or
not it found any results.
So you'll either get
number of found records,
zero,
or you'll get number of found records,
however many records it found.
Now, the different plugins for
Directory Service can choose to log
even more information than that.
One really good example is
the Active Directory plugin,
which actually does an
awful lot of logging,
especially during the process
of binding to Active Directory.
And it's actually pretty human readable.
So in this case,
you can see that it's trying
to talk to some servers,
and the servers aren't responding,
they're missing some of
their service records,
and so it's picking different servers.
And here it's telling you that
the network isn't reachable.
So it will tell you a lot of information.
If you are having a problem with
the Active Directory plugin,
particularly with binding,
this is the first place to go.
If you escalate a case,
either through the bug reporter,
through the developer channel,
or to AppleCare,
this is probably going to be the first
thing we're going to ask you for.
So now that we've looked at that,
you've configured your
directory services,
and you want to know, are they working?
So a really easy way to see
if they're working is just to
try and resolve a username.
So you can use the ID command for this,
and you can see in this case,
DogCow exists.
Unfortunately,
it looks like CyberDog does not.
I think we have one CyberDog fan here.
Any other CyberDog fans?
All right, give a hand for CyberDog.
So another way that you might
find that you have no connectivity
to your directory service,
you're not able to look up users,
is you might go into
something like Worker Manager,
and instead of showing you a nice list
of your users and groups and such,
it gives you a nasty looking error,
which usually has an error
number something in the
low negative 14,000 range,
like a 14002, 14008, and so on.
So the first thing that you might
need to troubleshoot is why am
I not talking to the server?
You need to know what server
you're talking to first.
So if you're using Open Directory,
You may have an Open Directory Master and
maybe a bunch of replicas.
So you can find out what servers
Directory Service knows about by looking
at the DSLDAPv3pluginconfig.plist file.
I know that's a mouthful.
That's in your Library Preferences
Directory Service folder.
And you'll see a list of
all the replicas in there.
Similarly, for Active Directory,
you'll see a list for every domain.
You will have at least
three different lists.
One list of LDAP servers,
one list of Kerberos servers,
and one list of Kpassword servers.
They may all be the same
servers in those lists,
but you'll have essentially
three different lists.
You may also have Global Catalog
server lists in this file,
and this is the
Active Directory.plist file,
again in Library Preferences
Directory Service.
So once you've figured out what
servers you're talking about,
The very first thing that
I would like all of you to
do before you go any further,
is
Check your DNS.
You do not know how many cases we get.
I would say probably 90-some
percent of the cases that we see,
especially with the
Active Directory plugin,
there's a DNS problem.
So before you go any farther,
check your DNS.
The next thing that you might want
to do is make sure that you can even
get a connection between where your
client is and where the server is.
So for that,
you can just do a telnet on port 389,
because that's the standard LDAP port,
and see if you can get connected.
So if you get something like this--
The port is open, you can reach it.
If you're not able to get that,
that means something
like the server's down,
the firewall is between
you and your server,
The network is down
between you and the server?
You have some sort of connectivity
issue to look at before you can
get directory services working
with that particular server.
But assuming that you are
able to successfully get
a telnet connection here,
You could try doing an LDAP query.
You can use LDAP search.
We're going to talk more
about LDAP search later.
But you can just do a basic query.
What's important here though is
that when you do LDAP search,
to make it a good test,
use the same information that
you used in directory access.
So use the same host name.
If you're using host
names in directory access,
don't put the IP number here because
maybe you didn't fix your DNS.
And use the same search base that you
find configured in directory access
because a lot of times that can simply be
the case of the search base is messed up.
So once you've got
directory service working,
it's happy, it's resolving users,
the next thing you can do is look in a
little bit more detail at those users.
So you're all familiar
with WorkRoute Manager,
I would hope.
But from the command line,
there's a utility called DSCL.
Now, one thing we're not going
to talk about is LookupD.
If you were all in the
open directory session,
you might have heard NetInfo
and LookupD are going away.
Don't be too sad.
So if you have not been using
DSCL and you've been using LookupD,
now would be a really good
time to start using DSCL.
Check out,
it's got a really good man page.
And there's also information in the
command line administration manual.
But if you're more of a GUI person,
there's the Inspector Mode in
WorkRoute Manager.
You can turn that on through preferences.
What happens if you have,
this is a problem that we've
been seeing quite a bit recently.
You're looking,
you're using Active Directory,
you're looking at
Active Directory users and groups,
and you know you just configured
a home directory for them,
and you've put them in
some specific groups.
And the classic symptom of this
is that you go to the client,
they try and log in,
they don't get their home directory,
maybe they aren't showing up
as members of certain groups,
not getting their managed
client based on certain groups.
And yet you look in
Active Directory Users and Computers,
it's there.
And you look in DSCL or
Inspector Mode and Worker Manager,
and you're not seeing it.
Well, the important thing to
remember is that LDAP,
just like any other server,
has credentials that you
need to use to access it,
and it gives you different rights
based on the credentials that you use.
So the question is,
what credentials is Directory Service?
So that's going to depend
based on what plug-in you're
using and how you're using it.
If you're using the LDAP plug-in,
by default, anonymous access.
Now, if you're using a third party,
something other than open directory,
you very likely may have had to
specify a particular user account in
the security tab because your admin
didn't want to allow anonymous access.
So, you may have that.
If you're using the authenticated
binding feature of Open Directory,
then that actually creates a
computer account in Open Directory,
and it authenticates as that account.
And if you're using the
Active Directory plugin,
That again is going to create a computer
account in Active Directory and use that.
So this is a direction that OS X is
moving more and more towards,
you know, away from anonymous binding
into more secure methods.
So this is something that you're
going to start seeing more coming in,
for example, Leopard.
But right now,
this is primarily something that you
Active Directory users are going to see.
How do you tell?
Is this really a permissions issue?
And if it is, what am I actually seeing?
And how,
if I'm not the person who has admin
access to my Active Directory,
how do I explain this to my
Active Directory admin so
that they can fix it for me?
So we can use our old friend LDAP search,
and we can authenticate using a username,
such as, for example,
an admin username or just
your regular account username.
And normally you would
specify this in the regular
distinguished name LDAP syntax.
Well, that can be kind of tedious,
especially in Active Directory where
maybe they've gone kind of
crazy with the nested OUs and
you're down about five levels.
So you can actually use a
little bit shorter syntax and
just say username @domain.
So once you do that,
you'll get a listing of what
you can see as the admin user.
So that's great,
but now what you need to do is,
what are you seeing as
the computer account?
Well, if you're going to connect
as the computer account,
you need to know the username,
which is pretty easy,
that's the computer name.
But how do you get the
computer account's password?
So it turns out,
that in the Active Directory PList file,
you'll find a key called
AD Computer Password.
And you'll see this data section.
It looks kind of weird.
Maybe it's the password,
but you try using that, and no,
it's not the password.
Well, it turns out that that's
actually base 64 encoded.
So you can get that by
using the OpenSSL utility,
decode it, and you'll get the actual
password that you could then plug
in to an LDAP search command.
One thing to remember here,
is just remember you have to specify
the computer account name here.
And unfortunately,
Active Directory will only
allow distinguished name
syntax for computer accounts.
So you will actually have to use
the CN equals and so on syntax here.
By the way, this is also a good way
of troubleshooting cases
where you have a machine,
it's been working with Active Directory,
suddenly it's not.
And one thing that might have happened
is it's possible that somehow the
password in Active Directory has been
changed for the computer account.
Either by some other computer
that says it's that computer,
or for example as we're going to
talk about on the server side,
by Samba.
So you can use this technique to
just test and make sure that you
have a valid computer name and
password for your computer account.
So once you've got connectivity
to your directory server,
you've got lookups of users and
groups and everything working,
the next thing that everybody
wants to be able to do is
actually authenticate users.
So Apple provides a utility called DIRT,
which just stands for Directory Tool,
and you can use this to test standard
authentication and NTLM authentication.
So you need to supply -m
and then the plugin/node.
So keep in mind if there is a space
in the name of the plugin or the node,
such as Active Directory or All Domains,
remember to use the quotes.
Then you need to supply the
username and the password,
and in the case of if you want
to test NTLM authentication,
it's -ANT.
I also want to point out that
there is a man page for DIRT.
It does say in it though that you
can actually omit the password
and it will prompt you for it.
That actually is not the case.
A bug is filed.
So if you want to test
Kerberos authentication,
on the other hand,
we have the standard Kerberos utilities.
KINIT lets you test getting a
ticket or just get a ticket.
KLIST lists any tickets
that you might already have.
KPASSWORD lets you change your
password over the Kerberos protocol.
These are great,
but some of you are more GUI inclined,
or maybe your users
are more GUI inclined.
So there's actually a nice
little GUI utility that's often
overlooked because it is in
System Library Core Services.
It's called Kerberos.app.
And for some reason,
people don't go there to look
for applications very often.
So this may be a good option for you.
If authentication isn't working,
there's some config files that
you may want to take a look at.
And so if you're using
Open Directory and password server,
you're going to look
in var db authserver,
and you're going to have
authserver replicas,
.local and .remote.
And if we take a look
at one of these files,
It's pretty interesting, doesn't it?
A lot of As.
So, turns out that that's not
just a bunch of gibberish.
That is actually Base64 encoded again.
So if you look at the very
first part of that data section,
that is actually the IP number
of your password server,
or at least it ought to be.
So you can actually decode this,
again with the OpenSSL command,
and check and see whether or
not that's actually the case.
If it's not the case,
you can delete this file,
it'll get regenerated,
but you may find that it
still has the wrong IP number.
And that is because you probably have an
out-of-date config record on your server,
and we'll talk about how and
where to change that when we
talk about Open Directory Server.
For Kerberos,
you have the edu.mit.kerberos
file in library preferences.
What's important here,
you should have a default realm.
It's really important,
especially if you're mixing open
directory and active directory.
The default realm is going to need
to be the active directory realm.
Otherwise, if you have multiple realms,
make sure that that realm is
actually the domain or the realm
that you want to be using primarily.
Then,
you should also have a Realm section for
every Kerberos Realm that you're using.
If you're using Active Directory,
you may have lots of these,
because you'll have one for
every domain in your forest.
If you're using Open Directory,
you'll generally just have the one.
So, if you've done all this,
it's still not working,
you're looking to take it
to the next step to try and
figure out what's going on,
you can always go to a TCP dump and
see what's happening on the wire.
So, there's lots of stuff
going on on the wire,
so really all you need to look at
are what's going on for Kerberos,
which is port 88, LDAP,
which is port 389,
or if you're doing it over SSL,
it'll be port 636.
If you're using DNS, which is port 53,
and if you're using Active Directory,
the Active Directory global catalog,
which is port 3268.
There's a little bit of
information on how to use
TCP dump on our developer site.
It's developer article QA 1176,
Getting a Packet Trace.
So check that out.
We're now going to move away
from talking about some just
general directory service stuff,
and we're going to talk
about login troubleshooting.
Because there's a bunch of stuff
in login troubleshooting that's not
strictly speaking directory services.
It is stuff like getting
the home directory mounted,
managed client,
portable home directory syncing.
And so we're going to talk
about that in this section.
So the first thing we're going
to talk about is just getting
that home directory mounted.
And how many people in here have had
a problem getting home directories
mounted before with their clients?
Yeah, pretty popular problem.
So, just take a guess.
What do you think the first thing
that I'm going to have you do?
You're all brilliant.
So yeah, check your DNS,
because your home directories are
going to be trying to mount your home,
or your client is going to
be trying to mount your home
directories based on the DNS record,
and that's going to require both a
forward record and a reverse record.
So that's the first thing you want to do.
But since you're all advanced
system administrators,
I know that's what you'll go and do.
And so the next thing you're going
to want to look at is just...
Can you actually manually,
like doing connect to
server on the client,
actually connect to that
user's home directory?
It's a really simple thing,
but that will catch a lot
of stupid mistakes that
I know never actually happen,
but things like the service is
not running on the file server,
or permissions being
changed on the file server,
things like that.
Next,
what you want to do is actually check
the user record and the mount records,
if there are any.
So in this case,
we're talking more about open directory.
And you want to check that home
directory and NFS home directory
have the right domain name,
and that they match the mount record.
So what that should look like is you
should have a home directory attribute,
which should be sort of
an XML sort of string.
And that should have, in the URL,
the DNS name of your server.
should have the same DNS name
in your NFS home directory.
If you have multiple
DNS names for a server,
don't go using one in one
place and one in the other.
Make sure they're both the same.
It's also important that you don't have,
for example, the DNS name in one of these
and the IP number in the other,
because it won't be
able to match them up.
So then these need to match
the actual mount record.
So again,
you'll have the DNS name in a couple
of places in the mount record.
So if you check all of that,
everything looks good.
The next thing you need
to do is troubleshoot
everybody's favorite process:
Auto Mount.
So one thing you can do is
actually run AutoMount manually.
So you can supply -m AutoMount servers,
-mnt private var AutoMount network
servers to give it the correct paths
to match up with where the home
directories are going to get mounted.
And then you use the -d flag to
actually get debug information.
Another thing you can do is
if you go back to the syslog
things we were doing before,
if you set asterisk.debug,
automount logs to syslog.
So you'll actually get a whole lot
of debug information in the system
log or if you choose some other log.
Another thing you can do is you can
actually look at what options are being
passed to Automount when it starts up.
And it may be the case that changing
those options may be helpful.
There's a KBase article 303841,
Resolving Login Issues with
the Active Directory Plugin.
Despite the name, this actually can apply
to Open Directory as well.
So what this will help you do is
change a couple of options in there
that may be causing your issue.
[Transcript missing]
But if you look in these network folders,
you'll find the hierarchy.
You'll have network, servers,
server name, SharePoint.
And then, in the case where
something has gone wrong,
you'll find maybe a few
user home directories.
And they're not on the server.
They're on the local client.
That's probably not a good thing.
And you probably, if that's the case,
want to save the user's files
rather than just delete them.
Just an idea.
But then you want to move or
delete these files out of there,
because if you get files in
the place where the links
are supposed to be created,
from that point on,
Automount is never going to
be able to create the link.
So your home directories will
never work after that point.
So look for what we call bogus
directories in any of these locations.
And if you were in the network
file systems discussion,
AutoFS is going to take over
all of the duties of the
automount process for Leopard.
This will actually give us a bunch
of new functionality and so on.
So look for some exciting
things in Leopard.
So, you get past all of that,
think your home directories
are working good,
and...
The users, you know,
they're getting past the login window,
but they get the lovely,
soothing blue screen,
and that's as far as they go.
Or you start loading the desktop
and it never quite finishes.
So what you want to do is SSH in,
because you don't have control
of the machine from the GUI,
and try top.
See what processes are
using a lot of CPU.
See if they have the hung flag.
See if you see processes running
that shouldn't be running.
Another thing that can cause this kind
of a symptom is just bad preferences
in the user's home directory.
So move aside their
library preferences folder,
have them try and log in again.
If that solves your problem,
it's probably bad preferences,
and you can actually use the PLUtil
with the lint option to check for
corrupt plist type preferences.
If you think your problem is actually
something with managed client,
for example,
your mobile accounts don't seem
to be getting created right,
or you're not getting the correct
managed client preferences enforced,
you can actually use some utilities
that we give you to help debug this.
So MCX Cacher is one,
and that's kind of hidden away
in System Library Core Services,
MCXD.app, Contents, Resources,
MCX Cacher.
And in all the little commands here,
I did not put that full
path on all of them,
but because that's not going
to be in your normal path,
you will want to include,
you'll have to include all
of that for it to work.
I just didn't want to do it because
it kind of took up the entire slide.
So if you want to test
creating a mobile account,
you can do mcxcacher-U username,
and then you can supply to the -h
option if you'd like a location where
you want the home directory to be.
So if you're going to have a home
directory in a non-standard location,
this would be how you could specify it.
Also with MCX Cacher,
you can use the -f option,
which essentially just will
make your client unmanaged.
And you can also force a refresh
of the cache at the next login
from the client side by using the
"-d" option to dirty the cache.
Another way of doing this is also to
delete any MCX cache objects that you
might find in the LocalNetInfo database.
You can also look at these cache objects
just to see what MCX settings they have
in them and see if they look correct,
or maybe they're just
totally out of date.
So, if this doesn't do it for you though,
you can actually get a bunch of
information from the MCXD process
by setting the debug output
option using the defaults command.
So you want to say defaults write
library preferences com.apple.mcxdebug,
debug output, and then choose a level
of logging from 0,
which is none, to 3,
which is the most verbose.
All of this information is
going to go to your system log.
The next thing, and this is something
that was new in Tiger,
is if you're doing
portable home directories.
So this is where you have
the local home directory,
the network home directory,
and you're syncing
between the two of them.
So sometimes the sync
database can just be corrupt.
So in the case where either
things are not syncing or things
seem to be syncing incorrectly,
you may just want to reset that database.
So if you are syncing the library
folder of the user's home directory,
you can actually do this really easily.
Just hold down
Option Shift when you log in.
If you're not doing that,
then you're going to want to move
aside the library mirrors folder
in the user's home directory.
One thing to be aware of though,
is that this also holds the
sync databases for .mac.
So you will be resetting
that as well here.
And then, like MCXD, you can actually get
debugging out of Mirror Agent,
which is the process that handles
the syncing of the network home
directory and the local home directory.
And so again, that's a defaults command
to com.apple.mirroragent.
This has a slightly different
range of logging options,
0 to 4.
4, though, is really, really verbose.
I would say 3 is probably where
you're going to want to start.
Logs for this will actually go
into the user's home directory
in library logs mirroragent.log.
So now that we've talked about
the client side of things,
we're going to switch gears and talk
about the server side of things.
So, Open Directory,
really just three servers all
tied and integrated together.
First, you've got an LDAP server,
and that's basically SLAPD,
which is your standard
Open LDAP LDAP server.
Then you've got the password server,
which is basically Apple's mechanism
for dealing with all different types
of passwords except for Kerberos.
And then to deal with Kerberos,
we have your standard MIT KDC.
The problems that you have with
Open Directory Server pretty
much all come down to one thing.
And what do you think it might be?
You guys are catching on real fast.
So, the very first thing is
you want to check your DNS.
And the thing to be aware of is
that even if DNS is working now,
Was DNS working when
you set up your server?
Or at some other point when you
made some other major change?
And so DNS is so important
that we've actually made some
changes in 10.4.6 for this.
But the important thing here
is after you've checked to
make sure your DNS forward and
reverse records are correct,
check the output of
hostname on the server.
Make sure it's correct.
Make sure it's your DNS hostname,
and not, for example,
your Bonjour hostname, or localhost,
or some out-of-date DNS name.
If it's not correct,
you're going to want to
fix that with scutil,
and it's the set hostname command.
And like I said, as of 10.4.6,
we've made some changes.
And so we've made the server a little bit
smarter about resolving its host name.
We also have made some changes
so that if it appears that there
is a problem with your host name,
we will start putting log messages
in your system logs saying,
"You got a mismatch.
Can you please fix it?"
It is the FQDN,
the Fully Qualified Domain Name.
So there's a KBase article that
details all of these changes.
It's KBase Article 303.697,
MacOSX Server 10.4.6,
Changes in Server Host Name Discovery.
So, now let's look at each part
of the server individually.
For SLAPD, you've got your standard
OpenLDAP config file in /etc/openldap.
You've got your logs
in /var/log/slapd.log.
And you've got the actual
database and transaction logs in
/var/db/openldap/openldapdata.
One thing that you should be aware
of is in addition to just the
database for OpenLDAP in here,
you also have all the transaction
logs that are used by the
Berkeley database back end,
which is what we use
for our SLAPD database.
These transaction logs,
they're all 10 megs each.
And if you're making a lot of changes,
you may get quite an accumulation
of these transaction logs.
And you may not actually
need all of them.
So if you're looking for,
where has all my space gone?
You can actually use the
dbarchive command to get a list
of which ones are not needed.
And you can actually,
if you supply the -d option to it,
it will take care of deleting and
removing those transaction logs for you.
So digging deeper with slapd,
we have the slapconfig command.
This is actually what's used to
set up your open directory server.
The enable slapd log option will
turn on logging to the slapd log.
The BackupDB option is actually
the command line equivalent of the
archive of the Open Directory server
that you see in Server Admin.
So if you're looking for a way to script,
A backup of the open directory databases,
this is what you want to look at.
Then you also have some
standard LDAP utilities.
SlapCat basically will just
export everything in the
LDAP server out to an LDF.
SlapAdd just lets you add some records.
And LDAP Search we've
already talked about,
that's just a way for you to
directly query the LDAP server.
So if you need even more troubleshooting,
because slapd is maybe
hanging or dying on you,
and you want to see what
it is that's causing that,
you can actually run slapd in debug mode.
So what you want to do is stop slapd
and restart it with the -d flag.
Problem is, if you try and just do that,
launchd is going to be very vigilant
and just restart it for you before
you can turn it on with debugging.
So before you try to turn
it on with the -d flag,
you're actually going to want to unload
it using launch control from launchd,
so that launchd isn't sitting
there trying to restart it on you.
started on you.
When you're all done troubleshooting,
you can have LaunchD load it
back into its Watched list just
by changing the Unload to Load.
So again, you can use the -d option.
There's a lot of different
levels of debugging.
Unfortunately,
they're rather complicated,
and I couldn't fit them all in the slide.
So check the slapdman page.
It gives you a very nice,
detailed explanation of what they are.
Moving on to Password Server.
The database is stored in
var/db/authserver/authserver/main.
There's a config file in
librarypreferences.com.apple.passwords
erverplist,
and then there's also the var db
authserverreplicas file that we were
talking about that are the same as
what you would see on the client.
The biggest issue that we
see with password server,
because there's really not a whole
lot that you can change or configure
specifically just with password server,
you don't really interact very
directly with password server.
The number one issue we see is, surprise,
surprise, a DNS issue.
And what happens is, at some point,
DNS has not been working quite right.
And so in your
com.apple.passwordserver.plist,
you have, in the SASSL realm,
the wrong host name.
Maybe you have localhost.
And usually where this happens is if
you have a master and multiple replicas,
and you'll get some of the replicas have
the wrong-- this should actually be the
DNS name of your open directory master.
So all the replicas should have
the same master listed there.
And some of them,
instead of having the DNS name,
have something like localhost.
So this is something that
you would want to fix.
There's a few other utilities
that you can use that
interact with password server.
MKPathDB, very powerful,
lets you look at all the
slots in password server,
see all the password server users.
Can help you figure out, for example,
if you have users that
aren't authenticating,
and especially if you've
maybe just done a big import,
did they actually get a
password set for them at all?
Are they in password server at all?
So you can look and see if there's
a list of them in mCapacityB.
You can also do things like
set passwords from there.
This is the tool that you would use if
you somehow lost your DER admin password.
But in general, MKPastDB, Nest,
which lets you set some configuration
options for password server,
and PWPolicy,
which lets you set password server
policy options from the command line,
are things that generally
you don't need to use.
And if you're going to
try something with them,
you can either maybe
magically fix your server,
or completely break your server.
So before you do anything,
especially with something
like MKPastDB or Nest,
I highly recommend you back
up your open directory.
And then finally, the Kerberos Server has
its own separate database,
var db krb5 kdc.
Even though it's the same
users and the same password,
it's two separate databases.
So one thing to be aware of is
you can actually have passwords
that somehow get out of sync.
So you can have the case where
Kerberos authentication works
or doesn't work versus regular
authentication works or doesn't work.
If that's the case,
you need to go back and reset
the password in whichever
one has the wrong password.
You have some standard
Kerberos utilities,
KAdmin, KAdmin.local, KT List.
These are what you could use to,
for example, reset the Kerberos password.
But in general, you don't really need
to use these very much.
SSO Util you can use to set up
Kerberos single sign-on for services.
And last but not least,
there are some configuration records
in Open Directory that are used by
clients to set up their config records,
particularly for things
like password server,
It stores the IP number
of the password server.
Now,
if this case where you have the wrong
IP number showing up on the clients
in their password server config file,
this is where you want to
come to check to fix it.
If you move servers around,
change IP numbers and so on,
you probably are going to want
to double check here to make sure
that this has gotten updated.
Same thing,
the edu.mit.kirberos file is also
generated for Open Directory clients
from a config record,
and that stores things like the
Host names of all of
your Kerberos servers,
so basically all of your
masters and replicas.
So you're going to want to,
if you've been making
a lot of changes there,
check and make sure you've
got the right names here.
So, now that we've talked lots and
lots about directory services,
it's time to talk about something else.
And this is probably the next most
common area that we get questions about,
which is file services.
So we're primarily going to
talk about AFP and SMB here.
And for AFP,
On the server side, there's just,
there's not a whole lot of logging.
On the client side though,
you can get quite a bit of detail.
And you can use the defaults command to
set a debug level and the syslog logging
with the com.apple.appleshareclientcore,
which is basically just your Apple file
service client on your OS X clients.
Keep in mind, the debug level can be
set from zero to eight.
Pick an appropriate level.
8 is going to be awfully verbose,
so you probably do not want to
start at the highest level here.
Also keep in mind that
you need to change syslog,
do asterisk.debug logging,
in order to get this to
go to your system log,
and you need to either
restart syslog by hopping it,
or restarting your system
before the logging will start.
On the SMB side, in Server Admin,
it will let you set low, medium, high.
And these basically correspond
to the Samba logging levels of 0,
1, and 2.
That's great,
but Samba actually allows for you
to log levels all the way up to 10.
So you can actually go into the smb.conf
file in the Etsy directory and set
that to whatever level you would like.
If you want to figure out where
your actual shares are configured,
they're really stored in NetInfo
in the config SharePoint's record.
Samba also keeps a copy of
these in the smb.conf file,
so this is something that you
may want to look at to make sure
that the two are not out of sync.
In Leopard,
the share points will probably be
stored in a flat file on the local
system because net info is going away.
You can use the sharing
command to list SharePoints,
configure SharePoints,
and so on from the command line.
And then, for just basic configuration,
all of the settings for AFP are
stored in library preferences
com.apple.applefileserver.plist.
Generally, you don't need to make
any changes in here,
but there are a few options
that are not exposed in the GUI.
An example of this is you can
set the number of threads that
are used by the file server.
This can be a great thing to
increase the number of threads
to make your performance better.
But in general,
If you see an option in there and
you're not really sure what it does,
you probably don't want to change it.
If you see an option in there and
you're not really sure what it does,
you probably don't want to change it.
So one big problem that we see
with file services is we get a lot
of questions about authentication.
And I'm going to give you one guess.
What do you think the big thing
that you need to check for--
I almost gave it away there.
What is the big thing
that you need to check?
.
Good guesses, but again, it's DNS.
This is particularly important
if you're doing Kerberos.
So let's look at, first of all, AFP,
two authentication types,
standard and Kerberos.
Generally, there's not really any
reason to change this.
You can change it in the
pulldown in Server Admin,
but you know,
if you want to use both or just Kerberos,
you can set it.
One reason why you may want to change
this is if you're in the situation where
you are using Active Directory and you
have users in a large number of groups,
Active Directory stores that group
information in the Kerberos file,
which is sort of a
non-standard Kerberos ticket.
And the ticket just gets too
large for the AFP server.
So Kerberos authentication fails.
So you could actually use this to
disable Kerberos authentication so that
your clients can at least authenticate.
Kerberos won't be working,
but at the very least,
your clients are authenticating
and getting to their files.
SMB is a little bit more complicated
because of course we've got
more authentication methods.
We've got the old land
man authentication,
which hopefully nobody's using.
We've got NTLM v1 and v2.
And finally we've got Kerberos.
So again, this is something where
you need to remember,
you should test the different
authentication methods separately.
So to test NTLM authentication,
you can use the dirt
command to test Kerberos.
You can use the K in it
to try to get a ticket.
But it's important that your Samba
config file is configured correctly
for authentication to work.
So the four options
that are most important:
Security, Realm, Workgroup,
and Use Spanago.
For security,
if you are using Active Directory and
you're going to use SMB file services,
make sure security is set to ADS.
Sometimes people will have
it set to user or domain.
If you have it set to domain,
That, by default,
will cause Samba to try to
change the password periodically,
which is fine,
except it kind of forgets to tell the
Active Directory plugin it's done that.
And so, yeah, oops.
Suddenly,
your whole server can't authenticate.
So usually you want to avoid that.
Now,
if you're not using Active Directory,
you can use the user
or the domain option.
If you're using Active Directory,
make sure that you have the
correct Kerberos Realm here.
It should be in all caps.
And that your workgroup reflects
your NetBIOS name of the domain,
not the DNS name.
And use Spanago.
You pretty much always want that
set to "YES" in order to have
Your client and your server work out what
authentication method they want to use.
If you're using Active Directory,
use the dsconfigad-enablesso command.
That will set up all of
your service principles.
It will also edit your
smb.conf file for you.
And just one last thing that can be
a troubleshooting tip is if you're
having problems authenticating with
Samba and the Active Directory plugin,
you might have a corrupt
vardb-samba-secrets.tdb file.
you need to unbind, delete it,
and rebind.
If you're having problems with
users not getting access to files
that they should have access to,
remember ACLs need to be
enabled at the volume level.
If you're going to look at
them from the command line,
you need to use the "-le" options with
"ls". And make use of the effective
permissions inspector in Worker Manager,
because ACLs can be pretty complex.
Finally,
if you have issues with group membership,
where users in a group are not
getting access to something
based on their group membership,
the authoritative way of telling
whether or not a user is in the group
is to use the DS Edit Group with
the Check Member option.
This basically will just respond to you,
"Yes, the user is in that group," or "No,
they are not."
Also keep in mind that with TIGER,
although we get you over the
typical UNIX 16 group limit,
Samba is still limited to 16 groups,
except...
You heard the little announcement
that there's a universal
version of OS X Server?
The universal version has this fixed,
so Samba will now be able
to use more than 16 groups.
I take it some people had that issue.
Just two last things that
you should be aware of.
If you're having weird refresh issues
with the finder on your clients,
look for corrupt.ds store
files or .ds store files that
have the wrong permissions.
And if you have issues
with resource forks,
because you have
Mac clients and PC clients,
and so you get the data and
resource forks separated,
you can rejoin them with
System Library Core Services fix
up resource forks.
And last but not least,
if you still are having other
weird issues with file services,
you can use the TCP dump command to
look at what's going on in the wire.
You can use FS usage to look at
what's going on in the file system.
And LSOF will tell you what
files are open and in use,
and by whom.
So, if you have any questions,
here's the contact information.